README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Faiz Jamadar</h1>

<h3 align="center">AI engineer & Software developer currently building from zero.</h3>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://faiz-porfolio.vercel.app" target="_blank">PortFolio</a> •
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/faiz-jamadar-2859732a4" target="_blank">linkedin</a> •
  <a href="https://github.com/faizjamadar18" target="_blank">github</a> •
  <a href="mailto:faizjamadar18@gmail.com" target="_blank">email</a>
</p>

---

#### 🔷 my goto stack
- javascript · python · react · next.js · node.js · express · mongoDB · Mysql · prisma · tailwind · langchain · langgraph · pytorch
  

#### 🔷 my latest projects

Exploring the codebase to understand BetterShot's features and functionality.

- **[BetterShot](https://github.com/KartikLabhshetwar/better-shot)** — – Implemented real-time messaging using Socket.io, achieving instant synchronization across devices.
– Engineered low-latency 1:1 video calling capabilities via WebRTC, with seamless HD connections.
– Developed a robust media sharing system supporting images, videos, and large files, optimizing upload speeds by
30% through efficient buffer handling and cloud storage integration.
– Secured user sessions with JWT-based authentication and HTTP-only cookies.

- **[OneURL](https://github.com/KartikLabhshetwar/oneurl)** — Open-source link-in-bio platform for creating profile pages to share links in one place. Features custom usernames, link management with drag-and-drop reordering, analytics (clicks, referrers, devices), Google OAuth, avatar uploads, and responsive design. Built with Next.js 16, React 19, Express.js, PostgreSQL, Prisma ORM, and Better Auth for authentication and session management.

- **[Mercurius](https://github.com/KartikLabhshetwar/Mercurius)** — Private, self-destructing chat rooms that automatically expire after 10 minutes. Enables secure, ephemeral conversations with real-time messaging, typing indicators, and message reactions no accounts required. Built with Next.js 16, Elysia, Upstash Redis, and Upstash Realtime for serverless real-time communication.


#### 🔷 building from zero

I build from zero. Whether it's frontend, backend, full-stack applications, or AI-powered experiences, I work across the entire development lifecycle. From UI/UX to deployment to user feedback, I care less about technology debates and more about delivering results that people love using.


#### 🔷 notable projects

- **[BetterShot](https://github.com/KartikLabhshetwar/better-shot)** — Open-source screenshot tool for macOS, alternative to CleanShot X. Features multiple capture modes (region, fullscreen, window) with global hotkeys, image editing with curated backgrounds (wallpapers, Mac assets, mesh patterns), custom backgrounds (solid colors, gradients, transparent checkerboard), visual effects (adjustable blur and noise), border radius control, high-quality export, clipboard integration, custom save directory, system tray integration, and native performance. Built with Tauri 2, React 19, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS 4, Vite, and Rust (xcap for screenshot capture, arboard for clipboard operations, image for processing).

- **[Mind Mentor AI](https://github.com/KartikLabhshetwar/mind-mentor)** — AI-powered educational assistant that revolutionizes learning through Groq AI and LLMs. Provides personalized learning experiences, intelligent study plans, and dynamic resource curation for efficient and engaging education.

- **[Stage](https://github.com/KartikLabhshetwar/stage)** — Modern web-based canvas editor for creating stunning visual designs. Upload images, add text overlays, customize backgrounds, and export high-quality graphics—all in your browser. Built with Next.js 16, React 19, Konva, and Cloudinary.

- **[OneURL](https://github.com/KartikLabhshetwar/oneurl)** — Open-source link-in-bio platform for creating profile pages to share links in one place. Features custom usernames, link management with drag-and-drop reordering, analytics (clicks, referrers, devices), Google OAuth, avatar uploads, and responsive design. Built with Next.js 16, React 19, Express.js, PostgreSQL, Prisma ORM, and Better Auth for authentication and session management.

- **[Doable](https://github.com/KartikLabhshetwar/doable)** — AI-assisted task management platform. Builds, ships faster with intuitive design for teams.

- **[Mercurius](https://github.com/KartikLabhshetwar/Mercurius)** — Private, self-destructing chat rooms that automatically expire after 10 minutes. Enables secure, ephemeral conversations with real-time messaging, typing indicators, and message reactions no accounts required. Built with Next.js 16, Elysia, Upstash Redis, and Upstash Realtime for serverless real-time communication.

- **[Lazy Commit](https://github.com/KartikLabhshetwar/lazycommit)** — CLI tool that automatically writes git commit messages using AI. Never write a commit message again. Seamlessly integrates with git workflows and supports multiple commit styles. Built with Node.js and Groq AI.

- **[Foliox](https://github.com/KartikLabhshetwar/foliox)** — AI-powered portfolio generator that automatically creates beautiful developer portfolios from GitHub profiles. Uses Groq AI to generate professional summaries, custom share URLs, and presents everything in a modern, responsive portfolio website. Built with Next.js 16, TypeScript, PostgreSQL, and Prisma.

- **[Quotick](https://github.com/KartikLabhshetwar/quotick)** — VS Code extension that automatically converts quotes to backticks when typing template literals. Streamlines JavaScript/TypeScript development by eliminating manual conversions and enhancing developer productivity.


#### 🔷 currently exploring
- **AI/ML systems:** Integrating large language models into production applications, understanding model capabilities, and building intelligent user experiences.
- **Full-stack architecture:** Designing scalable, maintainable systems that span from user interfaces to backend infrastructure.
- **Developer experience:** Creating tools and extensions that enhance productivity and streamline development workflows.
- **Systems programming:** Deep diving into Go, in-memory systems, and building high-performance applications.

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=KartikLabhshetwar&color=blueviolet&style=flat-square" alt="Profile views" />
</div>

Commit message:

Update project descriptions and links in README

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Faiz Jamadar</h1>

<h3 align="center">AI engineer & Software developer currently building from zero.</h3>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://faiz-porfolio.vercel.app" target="_blank">PortFolio</a> •
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/faiz-jamadar-2859732a4" target="_blank">linkedin</a> •
  <a href="https://github.com/faizjamadar18" target="_blank">github</a> •
  <a href="mailto:faizjamadar18@gmail.com" target="_blank">email</a>
</p>

---

#### 🔷 my goto stack
- javascript · python · react · next.js · node.js · express · mongoDB · Mysql · prisma · tailwind · langchain · langgraph · pytorch
  

#### 🔷 my latest projects

Exploring the codebase to understand BetterShot's features and functionality.

- **[Connectify](https://github.com/faizjamadar18/Connectify)** — – Implemented real-time messaging using Socket.io, achieving instant synchronization across devices.
– Engineered low-latency 1:1 video calling capabilities via WebRTC, with seamless HD connections.
– Developed a robust media sharing system supporting images, videos, and large files, optimizing upload speeds by
30% through efficient buffer handling and cloud storage integration.
– Secured user sessions with JWT-based authentication and HTTP-only cookies.

- **[XpenseFlow](https://github.com/faizjamadar18/Xpense-flow)** — – Built an AI-powered finance platform helping users manage expenses, improving financial awareness by 90%.
– Added AI receipt scanning to extract merchant, date, amount, and category with 90% accuracy, cutting manual
entry by 98%.
– Implemented automated monthly email reports with AI-generated spending insights and 80% budget-threshold
alerts, enabling users to stay proactive and avoid overspending

- **[Faizbook.ai](https://github.com/faizjamadar18/AI-content-creator-by-Faiz)** — – Architected my own fully-featured social media platform (Instagram/Facebook style).
– Built AI-powered editing tools achieving 98% precision in background removal and professional shadow effects.
– Integrated Generative AI to automate context-aware captions based on the image and title given, cutting content or
caption writing time by 90%.
– Engineered a scalable interaction engine handling seamless follow/unfollow logic, likes, and real-time comments.


#### 🔷 building from zero

I build from zero. Whether it's frontend, backend, full-stack applications, or AI-powered experiences, I work across the entire development lifecycle. From UI/UX to deployment to user feedback, I care less about technology debates and more about delivering results that people love using.




#### 🔷 currently exploring
- **AI/ML systems:** Integrating large language models into production applications, understanding model capabilities, and building intelligent user experiences.
- **Full-stack architecture:** Designing scalable, maintainable systems that span from user interfaces to backend infrastructure.
- **Developer experience:** Creating tools and extensions that enhance productivity and streamline development workflows.


<div align="center">
  <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=KartikLabhshetwar&color=blueviolet&style=flat-square" alt="Profile views" />
</div>
